Hey welcome back.
In this video we'll make a tiny demo project using our event listener.
I'm calling it the world's most annoying button.
It's a button that when you try and click it it moves out of the way and you have to wrangle it.
You have to corner it into a corner or a small space in order to actually click it and defeat it.
So it'll be very simple.
We have a single button element and we'll add some text like tried to click me.
And that's all we need in our each demo.
Then in our javascript we're going to select that button and use the mouse over event.
So when you get near that as soon as you mouse over that button It's going to move.
So you can't click because it will be gone before you can click.
So let's do a document that query selector to select that button.
We only have one.
We'll save this to a variable called B10 and then we'll add our event listener Beatty and add event
listener mouse over and our function will start by just cancelled out logging clicks may or no mouse
over me and just make sure that's showing up.
I always like to just test that things are connected the way they should be.
So if we refresh open up my console I'm always hemmed in by the way your button will probably look a
lot smaller OK mouse over me that is showing up.
OK so now what we want to do is when you mouse over I'd like for it to randomly move somewhere else
on the screen and there's a lot of ways of moving elements.
I'm going to go with the very simplest one which is not really ideal as far as performance.
I'm going to change the style dot top and style dot left not this dot style but Beatty and Dot style
dot top Beatty end up style dot left.
This being a javascript course I don't have time to go into a bunch of complex CSX animations and optimizations
but you can check out some other courses that are online.
Other people have great courses you can check out my youtube video on animations and CSX to understand
why animating top in life and a lot of different CSX properties is not really ideal but for this demo
it totally works fine.
So I'm going to start by selecting all buttons.
We only have one week to give it a position of absolute.
I'll give it a top of 10 pixels and a left of 10 pixels.
So now I have a top in the left set and position is absolute.
I can now manipulate that instead of my function.
The callback for my ad event listener.
So when mouse over occurs the first time.
Why don't we just set Beatty and Dot style dot left equals and we can just pick some number like 200
pixels.
And then Beatty end up style dot top equals one hundred pixels and let's make sure it moves so refresh
the page I hover.
And it moved.
OK so that's the first bit relatively easy.
I'm still ways zoomed in on.
Two hundred and fifty percent.
So there we go.
It's moving.
Now what I'd like to do is randomly pick a number and haven't moved that many pixels.
And ideally that number would be on screen.
I don't want to just pick some random number between zero and I don't know a thousand because some people
might have a screen that's only 900 pixels or they might have a really big screen with thousands of
pixels.
I don't want to limit it.
So how do we get access to these sides of the screen.
This is a bit of a side topic here but it's worth going into.
There's a lot of different ways.
And unfortunately it does it does vary a bit according to the browser a user is in especially older
versions of browsers but there are a couple different options.
I'll show you.
The first is on the window.
There is a property called screen.
And if you look at screen it has things like available height and available width now this is the maximum
dimensions of my actual screen on my computer.
This is not the dimensions of my browser window.
If I were to shrink this or change the size of the window we still end up with twelve hundred or was
it 1920 by twelve hundred.
So that is not what we want to use here because I would assume a user had their screen or their browser
window full screen.
But if we are doing it in a very small window you want to account for that as well.
So we have another option.
This is just one of the many options we have if we look in window again there is a property called Inner
height and another one called Inner with.
So right now my inner width is eight hundred and eighteen pixels.
If I resize this here's my actual window for this browser it's down to 2 0 3.
If I bring it over here it goes up to 16 80.
So we want to use inner with an inner height to calculate how many pixels are to use to calculate where
we should move this button.
We'll just multiply a random number by the entire width and by the inner height turn it into pixels.
So I'll do that here.
Why don't we start with math dot random.
Well multiply that by window dot inner heights and we can floor it if we want to.
I think we can just use a fractional number of pixels as well and see assess.
I'm actually not positive if I've ever done that but we'll floor it just to be safe.
So this will give us a height.
Let's make a variable for that concert.
H and then we'll get a with.
So I'll just duplicate that.
I'll call it w math that flaw of math at random times window that enter with.
Then we'll use that to set buttons styled that left.
So I'll use the width here and I'll do a template literal so I'll insert uh I don't really like the
name w I'll just do with height so with pixels and then the same thing for button that styled up top
I'll change this to height pixels.
Let's test it out here.
It appears to be staying on screen so far.
If I shrink my window down and I refresh again it still stays within that window size.
OK so we have this part done.
What if we add some behavior in if the user does manage to click somehow and there is a way to do it.
If you zoom way in and you make your window super tiny you can click.
So why don't we add a another event listener on the button add event listener when a user actually clicks
if they can.
What should we do to reward the user.
It won't be much of a reward but let's do a Let's change the inner text of the button button that enter
text equals.
You got me.
And then let's make the body the background color turn green so to select the body we can do document
up body and then style property we'll do background color not color camel cased equals green and is
there anything else I guess that's good enough we could do an alert but I'll leave it at this.
So in order to catch it and show it to you I'll go into my CSF file and make the button a little larger
so I'll do height is maybe 50 pixels with is 100 pixels refresh.
And I'm also going to resize my window so if I resize this as small as I can go in Chrome and refresh
it's still going to be tricky to click but what I'll do is zoom in make the button really large.
OK.
So now.
All right.
I should be able to click close.
There we go.
I got it.
You got me.
And it turns green.
So I cheated I made the window way smaller and I made the the button way bigger by zooming in.
But it works.
So this is a silly demo.
But the point is that we can have multiple events on one element and we have a mouse over we've got
to click.
It's moving.
So inside of this on click what's on on click inside of this event handler for a mouse over we are manipulating
the button.
Same thing here.
We're changing the inner text and the background color of the body.
So this is kind of fun silly stuff.
Next I'm going to show you how we can add event listeners to a bunch of elements.
So how do we add an event listener to every comment on a page or every button on a page that should
behave in a particular way.
We don't have to do it one by one.
So that's coming up next.